## Why we should get mad at support tickets.

I sit here on call, my company issued iPhone by my side serves as a sleek black slab of anxiety, I want some fresh air, but I know my phone will go the moment I step outside. I'm in the process of changing companies so I'm doing some reflecting on my career, wondering where and if I actually went wrong and I'm wondering  about where I'm actually heading. I know what I want to do, it's the same as what I've always wanted to do - be a hacker, not break into things, not make millions in crypto, wear a Guy Fawkes mask or be zero cool, I want to solve problems, I want to challenge the norms, think outside the box, poke holes in things, find ways to patch those holes I want to design and implement solutions to problems that exist around cyber security. 

I see problems everywhere, I see problems where there are none, I'll build out elaborate scenarios in my head based purely on possibilities. I can't help it, it's just the way I'm wired, but I can stay sane by solving these problems in advance, but sometimes that becomes too much so as any risk practitioner will tell you, acceptance is a valid treatment plan and sometimes I just need to force myself to deal with a problem if and when it occurs.

My ability to solve problems is what's got me to where I am, I was miserable at school, but everyone knew the path to success was through the education system so I stuck at it and failed. I was depressed and hopeless; I was first let loose on the internet in '95 at 10 years old, I embraced IRC, had a global social network, I volunteered in help and support channels on IRC, I wrote scripts to help remove the likes of the [ILOVEYOU virus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ILOVEYOU), I administered IRC and gaming servers, wrote a CMS, hosted websites and would automate everything I could just because it was cool, but without a degree none of these skills mattered.

So I enrolled in college, the plan was I go to college then onto uni where I'd get a degree and land some sort of IT related job. Then I went to college, they promised to teach me about Windows, Linux, C, networking, how to use MS Publisher and how to build a PC, the issue was I'd been running Windows since the 3.1 days, I had a slackware laptop, I'd played with C, hex editors, I'd built a home network in the 90s and shared my dial up connection via Wingate (and secured it I might add!), I'd built multiple PCs and my primary school projects were made in Publisher so I had nothing to learn. Okay, I was still a kid who wanted to be Neo from The Matrix (and still do!) with no real exposure to the real world, but some of what I was being taught was simply wrong, I was being taught things that contradicted what I knew and could verify, the internet was my playground, it was clearly the future, but the lecturers didn't understand it so I solved that problem and dropped out.

I tried college again the following year where my networking lecturer dubbed me The Cisco Kid, but once the excitement of connecting to loud blue boxes over a rollover cable wore off I was bored and frustrated again so I gave up. Fast forward a few years of dead end jobs and depression, I'd just passed my CCNA in my spare time while working shifts in a dead end call centre job and I managed to get my start on a helpdesk at a local IT company where I quickly excelled.

Working for a MSP who mainly dealt with small medium businesses really hammered in the fact that most businesses see IT as a cost centre, I had to learn how to deal with everyone from the company owner to the nice old lady in admin who had to be shown multiple times how to turn on her new computer, my technical ability and customer service background allowed me see and deal with problems that others were blind to.

Fast forward a few more years and I'm working for a multinational company who are only starting to think about information security. I'm attending a conference where [@drjessicabarker](https://twitter.com/drjessicabarker) gives a talk about the human element of cyber security, this introverted geek is reminded of what he already knows, it's not about the technology, it's about the people who are using it. We as information security, cyber security and IT professionals see the people as the problem, they're the weakest link, they do things the wrong way, they don't understand technology and our jobs would be so much easier without the user!

Guess what? We're here for the people, without the annoying user, the old lady who can't turn on her PC, the sales guy who's just emailed 100+ people a list of SSN by accident, the office manager who's just had a new broadband line installed as their WAN link is still running slow after complaining for years. We use dehumanising language like "the user", "the customer", it's us and "the business", but guess what, without them we're out of a job. 

So here I am sitting on call, my job is cyber security, but I'm part of an infrastrure team which has an on call rota. I've been on call less than 24 hours as I write this and I've already had eleven calls (it was nine when I started writing), none of these calls have been appropriate for what I'm supposed to be covering, they're not what I'm getting paid for and I've had a sleepless night due to them. I'm pissed off, I'm frustrated, these users are ruining my sleep, they're ruining my weekend, they're adding to my anxiety, but actually I'm getting annoyed for the wrong reasons. Every one of these calls is a failing our IT, our processes, our security controls and the culture of throwing technology at problems rather than actual implementing solutions.

I'm on call for business critical issues, I've been part of this on call rota for a year and I've maybe had two calls that fit the definition of what I should have been dealing with, most of the calls I've had during this time are what I would consider first line, they're password resets - we have a password reset portal, but it's poorly communicated, there's the requests for admin rights to install software that we should be deploying and I've just had to take a break from writing  to assist someone who's "not received email since last week" to set up Outlook on their company device (which had the wrong hostname on the asset tag) for the first time and update the password on their iPhone. To me every one of these calls is the result of IT failing their customer.

From my perspective I hate calling tech support or customer services, especially if I'm in the middle of trying to do something, I don't think I'm unique in this. If someone is logging a support ticket it is because IT is not facilitating their work and in some cases outright preventing them from doing their work. For the most part the person on the other end of these calls isn't some computer illiterate idiot, actually in my current role these people are intelligent engineers trying to work on generators, power plants and SCADA systems - and we wonder why OT guys don't want IT guys near their systems! 

Every support request is actually a person who is getting paid to do a job, but cannot do it because of a perceived IT problem, the problem may be lack of training, it may not look like an IT problem to us, but like it or not the human logging that ticket is part of the business process that we're getting paid to ensure works. If we can't help these people to do their jobs, if we continue to put hurdles in their paths they will and can work around us. Shadow IT isn't necessarily malicious, it's a result of the business system failing.

At Palo Alto Ignite 2018 in Amsterdam [@k3r3n3](https://twitter.com/k3r3n3) taught me that I should be embracing my hacker mindset, it's who I am, it's what I'm comfortable with, casual Fridays, daily stand ups and an open plan office is not me. A good cop needs to be able to think like a criminal and a good cyber security professional needs to be able to put themselves into an attackers mindset, but hacking is all about problem solving. Why is the attacker attacking? What are they after? Being able to answer those questions is important, but if we don't know what the humans we employ are attempting to achieve, what challenges they face and what workarounds they're being forced to use then we have no hope in securing the systems and process around them.

As a cyber security professional people are at the core of what I do, I've got no desire to go back to troubleshooting end user computing issues, but I need to know that we have engineers at customers sites without the correct software, we have sales guys mailing PII to third parties and that despite all the impressive stats about the usage of our password reset portal there's still a large number of people out there who don't know it exists. 

People are only the weakest link if we treat them that way, work with "the user", communicate with them about why we're introducing controls , find people to champion your security projects, tell them how it's going to benefit them and work with them to ensure it does, don't dismiss the challenges they face and by all means get pissed off when they log support tickets, but use your energy to focus on avoiding future tickets of that nature, don't get mad at the person who's asking for help as they could be the same person who spots something suspicious, but doesn't flag it because "IT are useless"[1].




[1]: You may be an elite cyber security professional, you may have a different reporting line to IT, but if you know stuff about computers and talk about firewalls and servers then you're still IT.
